So let's get started.
And before we use Route 53,
I want to go ahead and create three EC2 instances
in different regions, as well as one ALB.
So in one of these regions I'm going to go
into instances and then launch an instance.
And very simply, I will choose Amazon Linux2
on this architecture, a T2 micro type of instance.
I don't need a key pair, because I will use,
if I need to, I will use EC2 instance connect.
And then for network settings,
I'm going to create a security group.
I will allow SSH as well as HTTP from anywhere.
Then I will just, in advanced details,
specify a bootstrap user data script.
So, to do so, just go into your Route 53
user script and you copy this entire script.
And you paste it here.
So what's going to do is it's going to say
hello world from the instance, just as before.
But now we're going to add the AZ
the instance was launched in,
using this environment verbal called EC2,
availability, zone that I created from before.
So it's going to give us a little bit
more info about EC2 instance.
So I'm going to go ahead and launch this instance.
So this has been launched and it is right here.
Okay, that's good.
Next I'm going to go into another region.
For example, Northern Virginia, so US East one.
And then I will launch an instance.
And same settings.
So again, no key pair required.
So proceed without a key pair.
I will allow HTTP as well.
And for advanced details, I will provide
the exact same EC2 user data script.
Then we click on launch instance and we're good to go.
And finally I'm going to go into
one last region, for example Singapore.
And in Singapore I'm going to launch an instance.
And then we'll leave it as t2 micro,
we will choose no key pair.
We'll allow HTTP from anywhere.
And then, under advanced details,
I'm going to paste in the data and launch this instance.
Okay, so we have three instances
now being started in three different regions.
So we have one in Frankfurt,
one in Northern Virginia, and one in Singapore.
So this is good.
Lastly, what I'm going to do is that
I'm going to launch a load balancer
in Frankfurt, for example.
So here I'm going to create a load balancer
and choose an application load balancer.
Create.
And then the unique name will be DemoRoute53ALB.
This is fine, it's going to be internet facing, on IPv4.
I will choose for mapping, one, two, and three subnets.
And for security group I can choose up to five.
So I'm going to choose the one that I've created
just from before, which was the launch user two,
which had AWS and HTTP enabled.
This way we're sure that HTTP is enabled.
And the protocol is on 80, you're going
to forward to a new target group,
that we're going to have to create, based on instances.
And I'll call it this one demo tg route 53.
And, what I want to do is next
and register my one instance right now
that I just created from before.
So you do include as pending below.
Then on the review targets, you have one target.
And then create the target group.
So the target group is not created.
So back into model balancers.
I can refresh this and select the demo tg group route 53.
And everything looks good.
Let's create our load balancer,
and then click on view the balancer.
And here we go.
So now to summarize, let's see
if everything has been working properly.
So, we have one EC2 instance right here.
And let's take the public IP, so I'll just copy
the IP itself, make sure using the IP via http.
And it says hello world from blah, blah, blah.
So this is good, so what I'm going to do
is that I'm going to, under a text file,
just to have a mark of a trace of everything,
I'm going to put the IP address
as well as the region I'm in.
So EU central one.
As you can see, it says hello from AZ EU central one B.
Okay, so this instance is working.
I'm just testing whereas everything's working.
So I'm going to also take this public IP right here,
paste it in, and it says yes hello from US East one A.
So this is perfect, so this is US East one.
And the last instance right now it's here.
And then I'm going to copy this IPv4 address,
paste it in, and it says hello from AP Southeast one b.
So this one's working as well.
So let's go here, AP southeast one.
And finally, if I go under my ALB
and take the DNS name right here,
let's see if it has been provisioned.
So let's refresh this.
So it is provisioned as we can tell.
So this can take a bit of time.
So for you, it may not work, for me it worked.
And so because it is pointing to one EC2 instance,
it's a hello world from AZ EU Central one B.
So now we have properly set up
all our instances, as well our GNS.
So we're good to go.
And keep this information handy,
and I will see you in the next lecture.